# Smart-University
Enormous amounts of data are emerging every day in educational institutions. This information pertains to assignments, courses, activities, performance etc. The scale and types of data generated within the university can be analyzed and utilized to drive the way the institution operates. Smart Universities aim to leverage this huge data to benefit students in a number of ways.  The existing educational system in the university is not effectively harnessing the data thereby resulting in partial utilization of its resources. Students often find it difficult to land a job and seek for certain help during job search. Moreover, students have very little information about the available courses and proper guidance is not available to the current students causing them to suffer bad grades due to inappropriate selection of courses. So, there exists a definitive need for proper and effective usage of the functionalities in the existing educational system.  In this project, we propose several ways a college or university can turn smarter using data and analytics. There are many approaches that improve the management of an institution and the usage of its resources while also benefiting students. However, the scope of the project is restricted to essentially help students in course selection as well as job search. Some of the key features of smart university include evaluating the curriculum and providing feedback, engaging alumni to contribute to help current students in their job search, providing a better recommendation system to help students identify the courses that suit their best interests.
